In late October, Linus writes and sends off a letter addressed to the Great Pumpkin, to the ridicule of his peers. Sally Brown, driven by her crush on Linus, is the only one who accepts Linus's belief. Charlie Brown proudly announces he has been invited to Violet's Halloween party, to Lucy's disbelief. On Halloween night, the Peanuts prepare their costumes for trick-or-treating. As they depart, they make a brief detour to the pumpkin patch and mock Linus, who is holding vigil for the Great Pumpkin instead of trick-or-treating. Sally breaks off from the group to stay with Linus, and he explains that the Great Pumpkin arises in the patch of the most sincere of believers. As the others trick-or-treat, they all receive a plethora of candy and other goodies except Charlie Brown who only gets rocks. Afterward, they head to Violet’s Halloween party, where Violet uses Charlie Brown as a model: drawing jack-o-lantern designs on his bald head.

During this time, Snoopy, dressed as a World War I flying ace, boards his doghouse, imagining it to be a Sopwith Camel fighter plane engaged in a dramatic aerial gunfight with the elusive Red Baron. Snoopy is "shot down" and forced to navigate on foot the treacherous countryside behind enemy lines, ending at the party, where he sneaks into the apple-bobbing tank as Lucy partakes. Snoopy listens as Schroeder plays World War I era tunes on the piano. The music—and Snoopy's mood—alternates between joyful and sorrowful, until Snoopy accidentally howls and leaves in embarrassment.

At the pumpkin patch, Sally grows skeptical until Linus hears a nearby rustling noise and spots a figure in the distance. Convinced it is the Great Pumpkin, he faints in excitement. The figure turns out to be Snoopy, and Sally berates Linus for ruining her night. At 4 a.m., Lucy goes out to the pumpkin patch to bring in a shivering Linus from the cold and tuck him into bed.

The next day, Charlie Brown and Linus reflect on the night before. Charlie Brown attempts to comfort Linus by saying that he himself has done some stupid things, but a deeply offended Linus rants that the Great Pumpkin is sure to arrive next year as Charlie Brown listens.