Wubbzy's Big Movie! is a made-for-television movie based on Wow! Wow! Wubbzy!.

It is a quiet day in Wuzzleburg. Wubbzy, Widget, and Walden are reminiscing on some of their favorite memories. As they go to get some doodleberry pie, Wubbzy trips on a rock. Wubbzy tumbles down a hill, hitting his head several times until he loses his memory and starts mooing like a cow. Widget and Walden go to help him, but for Wubbzy, they now appear to be strangers.

Widget and Walden take Wubbzy to Dr. Flooey's office to examine his case. At Dr. Flooey's office, Wubbzy doesn't remember anything. Dr. Flooey tells Wubbzy that he was in his office just a week ago for a prognosis of his tired tail. Wubbzy does not remember that visit. Widget reminds Wubbzy of the appointment, but was unsuccessful in doing so. Flooey then concludes that Wubbzy has a case of knockity-noggin. Flooey explains that it could be treated by further retelling Wubbzy some of his past adventures. Walden takes Wubbzy home, showing him his notebook.

The notebook's written memoirs make references to previous episodes in the first season. Walden ends up failing to rekindle Wubbzy's memory this way, so he turns to Widget. While in Widget's workshop, Widget first shows Wubbzy the Tail-o-Tronic 3000, allowing him to control the machine as well. While this fails to recapture Wubbzy's memories, he appreciates the costume. Widget then builds the Remember-When 3000 in order to visualize Wubbzy's memories. Widget sits Wubbzy in front of the machine and demonstrates some scenes until a scene from Perfecto Party and then that episode plays.

This is an unsuccessful treatment for Wubbzy, so Widget and Walden continue playing other memories on the screen. After some time, the Remember-When malfunctions. Wubbzy was afraid, as he has a fear of darkness. Walden reminded Wubbzy that he once stayed late watching horror movies; this made Wubbzy afraid, despite having forgotten the memory. Shortly after, the machine begins working again. This time however, the invention grabs Wubbzy and throws him, causing him to fall and hit his head again. After this, Wubbzy regains his memories and remembers his friends too. Afterwards, they go back to get doodleberry pie.